<!---Template warning-->
## <span style="color:red">Warning: This is a template to generate the README.md The final README.md is generated by code using this template. </span>
#### <span style="color:red">The code in run_analysis.R will insert the created date time</span>
<!---/Template warning-->

---
title: "README"
output: html_document
---


####Repository for the programming assignment Coursera course Getting and Cleaning Data


The programming assignment consists of cleaning up the following data set: <!---DataFileUrl--><!---/DataFileUrl--> and to create a new tidy data set with the average values of the mean and average values of the original data set. The new tidy data set is saved to the file MyMeans.txt. These action will be performed by the run_analysis.R scripts. Check as well the Codebook.md file for description of the features in the tidy data set.

The run_analysis.R script will carry out the following:

- Load the needed libraries.
- Set up a set of constants we can use to prevent typos.
- Check if the script has to run with certain debug settings. Debug settings enable reading only part of the data so you can run the scripts much faster for testing and debugging.
- Check if the online data file has been downloaded already. If not, the script will download the data file.
- Check if the online data file has been unzipped, if not it will unzip the data file.
- Read the test data, training data, activity data and subject data from file into separate data frames.
- Add the activity data and the subject data into two new columns to the test data frame and the training data frame.
- Merge the test data frame and the training data frame to a new data set. Merging is done by appending the training data to the test data.
- We will subset this data frame to extract only the measurements for the mean and standard deviation. This is done by using the grep command to include only columns which contain "mean()" or "std()" in the column name.
- At this moment the activities are specified by ids. We replace the ids by descriptive activity names using a merge command and removing the activity id.
- We clean up the data set by replacing the original column names with descriptive variable names. We have created a mapping table in the file featuresMappings.txt to replace the original variable names by descriptive variable names. If the mapping table file is not found, the script will create a base template for the mapping table, using the original column names and another mapping table in featuresRegex.txt. This saves typing the variable names and you can adjust the mapping table with an editor. We will also use the mapping table in featuresMappings.txt to create the description of the features in the Codebook. In this way we keep the naming of the variables consistent.
- As one of the last step of the assignment a new tidy data set is created by calculating the mean values for each combination of activity, subject and measurement using a melt/dcast function combination.
- This new created tidy data set is written to the file "Means.txt" and optionally you can test if this file is readable in R.
- Finally the Codebook.md and README.md files are created from templates and replacing placeholders in the files by text or variables, for example to insert the creation date time in the documents or to create a list of features with descriptions in the Codebook from the mappings table used to create descriptive variable names. This will save a lot of typing and makes the naming consistent.

Note: if debug settings are used, the script will print this information as a reminder.




Created: <!---DateTimeCreated--><!---/DateTimeCreated-->

